+++
date = "2017-03-16"
title = "About The Project fr"
+++

## Overview

The project, distributed across several university libraries, adds approximately 1100 maps to our collective digital holdings, including most known sheets covering Ontario from the 1:63,360 and 1:25,000 national topographic map series. Ontario universities have contributed their support by supplying and scanning maps, georeferencing the digital images, creating metadata for the records, and developing the online geographical display of the maps.

Topographic maps at these scales are heavily used by researchers interested in examining changes over time, such as urban sprawl, transportation patterns, diminishing woodlots, or shoreline erosion.

The OCUL Geo Community is a forum for the exchange of information and ideas pertaining to maps, geospatial data, and other cartographic resources, both print and digital, within the wider Ontario Council of University Libraries community.

For more information about the project please contact [topomaps@scholarsportal.info](mailto:topomaps@scholarsportal.info).

## Technical Specifications

The following presents the steps taken to digitize all of Ontario’s public-domain historical topographic maps at the 1:25,000 and 1:63,360 scales. These technical specifications are presented as a set of scanning and georeferencing guidelines for the project. This can also serve as a useful reference for other institutions undertaking map digitization projects.

### Digitization
Print maps were digitized at 600 ppi resolution and 24-bit colour depth with Colortrac feed-through scanners (models SmartLF Gx+ T56 and SmartLF SG), using standardized colour normalization and stitch correction processes. Manual quality control methods were applied to each digitized sheet to ensure images were straightened and cropped appropriately. Images were also manually inspected for the presence of scanning artifacts; affected images were either corrected or the sheet was flagged for re-scanning.

### Derivative Images
ImageMagick software was used within a custom script to generate three different-sized derivative images for each digitized sheet in JPEG format. A ‘large’ JPEG derivative was generated by scaling the original TIFF image by 50%; a ‘medium’ JPEG derivative was generated by scaling the original TIFF to a 2000 pixel-wide image; and, a ‘small’ JPEG derivative was generated by scaling the original TIFF to a 204 pixel-wide image.

### Georeferencing and Georectification
A total of 8 to 12 ground control points (GCPs) were established for each digitized map using ArcMap software (versions 10.1 to 10.5). Georeferencing and reprojection for each map was carried out using the Geospatial Data Abstraction Library (GDAL) functions gdal_translate and gdalwarp, respectively. A custom script was used to automate the conversion of ArcMap GCP files to GDAL format, as well as the georeferencing and warping processes. As part of the warping process, geotiffs were projected to the NAD83 datum, and into the appropriate UTM zone.

### Tiled Web Map Generation
Each georectified image was transformed into a collection of tiled web maps using the gdal2tiles library within a custom script. Tiles were generated in Web Mercator projection (EPSG: 3857) for zoom levels 6 through 16.

All processing scripts may be accessed through the [project Github repository](https://github.com/jasonbrodeur/OCUL_HTDP).

### Project Website
The project website was creating with the [Hugo static website generator](https://gohugo.io/). It uses [JuxtaposeJS](https://juxtapose.knightlab.com/) to compare images, and the [elevateZoom-plus jQuery plugin](https://github.com/igorlino/elevatezoom-plus) to zoom into individual maps. The source code for the website is available on [Github](https://github.com/scholarsportal/historical-topos).

## Contributors

The following is a list of institutions and organizations that contributed to the project from 2014 to 2017. Throughout the project, contributions varied across Ontario libraries and other organizations, with some providing maps from local collections, map scanning, georeferencing, quality assurance, metadata creation, data transformation, project management, and technical infrastructure.

### Organizations
* Archives of Ontario
* Brock University Library
* Carleton University Library
* Library and Archives Canada
* McMaster University Library
* Natural Resources Canada
* Queen’s University Library
* Ryerson University Library
* Scholars Portal
* Toronto Reference Library
* Trent University Library
* University of Alberta Library
* University of Ottawa
* University of Toronto Libraries
* University of Waterloo Library
* Western University Library
* Wilfrid Laurier University Library
* York University Library

<br>

### Individuals
* Jordan Aharoni (McMaster University)
* Jo Ashley (Scholars Portal)
* Victoria Balkwill Tweedie (McMaster University)
* Rebecca Bartlett (Carleton University Library)
* Colleen Beard (Brock University)
* Gordon Beck (McMaster University)
* Trudy Bodak (Emeritus, York University)
* Jason Brodeur (McMaster University)
* Ryder Burt (Carleton University Library)
* Jaiwei Chen (Scholars Portal)
* Bianca Chiarenza (Ryerson University)
* Noel Damba (Ryerson University)
* Lorraine Dubreuil (Emeritus, McGill University)
* Kara Handren (Scholars Portal)
* Charles Hill (University of Ottawa Library)
* Dan Jakubek (Ryerson University)
* Amber Leahey (Scholars Portal)
* Neil Livingston (York University Library)
* Zarah Malm (York University)
* Katie Maloney (McMaster University)
* Kaitlin Newson (Scholars Portal)
* Jenny Ni (McMaster University)
* Rosa Orlandini (York University Library)
* Ashleigh Patterson (McMaster University)
* Raphaël Pelletier (University of Ottawa Library)
* Veronica Petta (York University)
* Joël Rivard (Carleton University Library)
* Artemisia Robins (York University)
* Sophie Routhier LeBlanc (University of Ottawa Library)
* Margaret Rutten (McMaster University)
* Sarah Simpkin (University of Ottawa Library)
* Marisa Thomas-Perrier (York University)
* Cheryl Woods (Western University Library)
* Kevin Worthington (Scholars Portal)

<br>

Special thank-you to the Ontario Council of University Libraries (OCUL) for providing the funding for the 3-year project. In 2017, OCUL is celebrating its 50th anniversary, and this project marks a tremendous achievement, recognizing collaboration in shared stewardship and preserving Canada’s past.